# The Clasp Diagram Data Structure

Our main reference is "Encoding Knots by Clasp Diagrams", by J. Mostovoy and M. Polyak.

## Explain here what is a clasp diagram.

A clasp diagram is a different representation of a knot. Instead of using a planar projection with over and undercrossings indicated, we can represent a knot as a circle together with several lines (chords) with starting and ending points on the circle. Each of these chords will also be endowed with a sign (-, +), and with a height.

This representation is actually an augmentation of the Gauss Diagram. Currently there are no dedicated libraries in Python for dealing with Gauss Diagrams (that we know about).

Any braid (which biunivocally represents a knot) can be written as a product of elementary braids (crossings). A Gauss Diagram can be generated by the crossings of a knot. Because of some (which?) advantages, a braid can alternatively be seen as a product of full twists. A Clasp Diagram can then be generated by the full twists of a knot.

In the paper, it is proven that any knot can be (uniquely/biunivocally) represented by a Clasp Diagram, and a set of moves is identified that preserve knot isotopy. Further, some invariants can be readily calculated from this representation.

The objective of this library is to implement a computationally efficient and comfortable-to-use data structure that correctly (how can one prove this?) represents a Clasp Diagram.

## Mathematical definition of a clasp diagram

## Explain here how i implement it (only base implementation). That is s/e matrix and list.
Explain how one converts between them.

## Technicals
Explain Clasp Diagram Equality.
Explain that ClaspDiagram objects are hashable, in order to be compatible with deep learning.
Explain a certain type of comparison between clasps. Maybe by numbr of chords.
Consider serialization.

# Mention the drawer. Link to that doc.

# Mention the player. Link to that doc.

# Explain here the other attributes. Link to attributes implementation. Explain alternating alpo.

# Explain how moves preserve isotopy. Link to moves documentation. In there, detail if moves alter,
or generate a new clasp object.